# Chapter 1 Security

2017-01-22

/* Frickin' great!  I can't leave notes in the watermarked PDF.  Preview keeps making a copy but
that act corrupts the copy.  I'm going to have to go all old-school here and drop my notes
externally.  Yuk! */

? He kicks off talking about JVM, ClassLoaders, and the external SecurityManager.  I haven't heard
about that thing in 10 years.  Does anyone still do this?

P2, Para 1:  "...Injection attacks (...XSS, XPath, LDAP injection) are possible when the components
susceptible to these attacks are used in the application"

CH01 is about
1. Dealing with sensitive data
2. Avoiding common injection attacks
3. Language features that can be misued to compromise security
4. Details of Java's fine-grained security mechanism

## 1.  Limit the lifetime of sensitive data

"Has memory pages that can be swapped out to disk...", "Holds sensitive data in a buffer (such as
BufferedReader)...",  "Reveals sensitive data in...environment variables..."

/* AHH!  I do almost all of this.  I thought environment variables would be preferable to the "put
the password in a .properties file" approach.  Why not?
*/

/* Console.readPassword() is the big reveal here.  The whole first pitch has something to do with
interned Strings and an array of chars[] is more under my control?
*/

## 2. Do not store unencrypted sensitive information on the client side.

Storing user credentials on the client side may result in its unauthorized disclosure.

Cookies avoid the "don't store the credentials on the client" requirement, but are vulnerable to
XSS.
* Time-limited Auth tokens, for example, mitigate but don't eliminate the XSS vulnerability.

P7, Para 1:  "This code also violates Guideline 13, "Store passwords using a hash function".  What?
I thought "always hash the password, and throw some Salt in there too" was the order of the day?

/* I already don't like the "Compliant Solution" for PasswordServlet; it uses HttpSession.
HttpSession is the enemy of simple LoadBalancing, no? */

/* The Session Fixation stuff is interesting.  Otherwise, this solution is CRAP.  Maybe the concept
is sound, but the implementation, geez... */

## 3. Provide sensitive mutable classes with unmodifiable wrappers

/* Hmm.  The example is kind-of crap.  MutableProtector has no actual relationship to the Mutable it
 "wraps" leaving us with no way to let Mutable do its work and MutableProtector to keep
 non-priviledged users from setArray and the like. */

## 4. Ensure that security-sensative methods are called with validated arguments.

/* On name alone, isn't this actually "validate your input arguments"? */

/* It looks like java.security.AccessControlContext is the 'sudo' of your Java Code:
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/security/AccessControlContext.html */

/* The Compliant solution is as clumsy as all the others.  It strikes me as odd that validation
happens OUTSIDE OF the call.  Why isn't that "not null" check of accessControlContext done, oh,
first thing when we get in the run?!? */

/* I don't understand the point of 4 at all, I guess */

## 5. Prevent arbitrary file upload

/* This one sounds practical.  It basically says "don't trust Content-Type header from your clients,
 they may be lying.  Use a library to crack open the bits and validate that the Content-Type is
 indeed what the file is." */

## 6. Properly encode or escape output

P16, Para 4:  "...However, it is dangerous to assume that output sanitization is unnecessary,
because such data may indirectly originate from an untrusted source and may include malicious
content."

/* I think they are close to the truth, but often missing the fact that its a "single page webapp"
world and my servcie doesn't output pretentation logic directly, but some intermediary
representation that becomes "presentation logic" in a slightly different manner on a webapp, on
Android, on iOS. */

/* They want "normalized" data.  So the data is always changed?  It seems difficult to make
accuracy assertions when what goes in isn't what comes out */

https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GERONIMO-1474

/* Its kind-of funny, the actual attack vector ISN'T the logs, its the lame web viewer of the logs.  Because the log may be viewed in a web viewer, you need to encode what goes into the logs.  This sounds wrong, to me. The problem is the log view application NOT the logging itself. */